# MSDS462
# Introduction

Pneumonia is an infection in the lungs that causes the air sacs in one or more lungs to fill with fluid. This illness is spread through respiratory droplets and it can be identified by chest x-ray images. The purpose of this project is to apply computer vision techniques to a dataset that contains images of chest x-rays and deploy the final model to an edge device. The images were obtained from the Chest X-Ray Images (Pneumonia) dataset from the Kaggle website. These images were split into folders for training, testing, and validation. This analysis will focus on the image classification models that were created to identify normal lungs or pneumonia in the lungs. The task is to create a binary classification model, save the model, and incorporate the model in Xcode that will create an iOS application.
	
# Methods

Two models were created for this image classification task using Create ML from Apple and deploying the final model to an iOS device. Create ML provides an intuitive interface to easily load the datasets and train the Core ML model. Core ML models are designed to use cutting-edge neural networks, but the developer cannot make modifications to the algorithm. The first model is considered the baseline model that doesn’t include any data augmentation techniques to the image data. The second model used three data augmentation techniques to try and improve the model accuracy. Data augmentation will artificially increase the training dataset by modifying the original version of the image. Create ML augmentation techniques are the following add noise, blur, crop, expose, flip, and rotate. I chose to add noise, blur, and expose for the second model.

The first model performed at 95% training accuracy, 79% validation accuracy, and 87% testing accuracy. While the second model with data augmentation performed at 93% training accuracy, 71% validation accuracy, and 81% testing accuracy. Since the baseline model outperformed the second model, I will move forward with that one. The normal class received 89% precision with 91% recall while the pneumonia class received 97% precision and 96% recall. I tested the model with two images representing both classes. The first picture was from the normal class and the model predicted 0.67 normal and 0.33 pneumonia. While that is the correct prediction, the model is not very confident in the score. The second image from the pneumonia class also received a correct prediction with 0.87 pneumonia and 0.13 normal. The model performed better on the second image.
	
# Conclusion and Future Work

While both of these models were successful, the baseline model performed better than the second model with data augmentation. Future work for this project will focus on transfer learning to improve the model accuracy. There is also an opportunity to apply different augmentation techniques to try and find the right combination of data augmentation to apply to these x-ray images. Additionally, this project may be expanded into a multi-class classification model to incorporate a category for COVID-19 with additional images for COVID-19 patients. This type of model could be useful in determining patients that have COVID-19 before test results will be returned. 
